October 22, 2012
================

vifm v0.7.4a
------------

0.7.4 package contains configuration files of autotools of different
versions.  As a result it's not always possible to build vifm 0.7.4 by
running `./configure && make`.  The author is sorry about wasted time
of users spent on building vifm with partially broken build system.

Anyway this mistake has also a good point.  0.7.4a fixes several bugs,
some of which are related to new features.

See change log for full list of fixes.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

October 18, 2012
================

vifm v0.7.4
-----------

0.7.4 is a minor release, which improves existing features as well as adds
some new ones.

There are two main directions in which improvements were made.  One of them
is TUI, which now has support of multiple columns and ls-like view as well as
customizable file name decoration (prefix and suffix).  The second one is
connected with command interpreter, which now supports builtin functions,
conditional operators and conditional execution of commands
(using if-else-endif statements).  Additionally, vifm's memory footprint was
made smaller and running of programs associated with files made smarter
(won't stop until existing program is found).

Main changes:
 - new multicolumn view;
 - new ls-like view (see 'lsview' option) and related keys for it;
 - prefixes and suffixes of files of different types are configurable now;
 - smarter handling of file associations (now vifm will try to find existing
   program);
 - some basic means to do scripting (if-else-endif statements, builtin
   functions, comparison operators);
 - reduced history memory consumption;
 - better configure script, which now checks more stuff (and does it in a
   more accurate way) needed to build vifm.

More detailed list of changes.

Configuration:
 - removed compile-time compatibility mode (the compatibility-mode switch),
   now "f" flag in 'cpoptions' does the same;
 - added --without/[with]-X11 configure script option;
 - configure script now checks much more then before;
 - better make files (thanks to Hendrik Jaeger).

Only on Windows:
 - replaced gl normal mode mapping for Windows with gr because of conflict
   (with 'lsview');
 - allow paths in :file[x]type command that contain spaces to be doublequoted
   on Windows.

Normal and visual modes related changes:
 - added Ctrl-W H/J/K/L normal mode keys;
 - added gh, gj, gk and gl keys for normal and visual modes;
 - added 0, ^ and $ keys for normal and visual modes, which also work as
   selectors in normal mode.

Command-line mode related changes:
 - added Ctrl-T handling in command line to swap characters;
 - added Meta-. handling in command line to paste last parts of previous
   commands;
 - added :echo command;
 - added :if, :else and :endif commands;
 - added support for `==` and `!=` operators;
 - added :normal command;
 - added mapping commands for view and menu modes;
 - changed relative path base for :split and :vsplit commands;
 - expand macros for user defined commands.

:set command and options:
 - added 'viewcolumns' local option to control view columns;
 - added 'lsview' option to control ls-like view look;
 - added 'dotdirs' option to control visibility of "../" directory;
 - added 'classify' option to set prefixes and suffixes for different file
   types;
 - added %E 'statusline' option macro, which means size of all selected files
   or current file, if no files are selected;
 - added "t" flag to 'cpoptions' option (replaces compile-time compatibility
   mode).

Completion:
 - added completion for :set option= even for options without variants;
 - complete only directory names for :split and :vsplit commands;
 - escape pipe character during :file completion;
 - complete :set for short and full option names like Vim does (e.g. 'so'
   should be expanded to 'sort', not only 'scrolloff').

TUI (Terminal User Interface):
 - added status bar messages for :apropos, :find and :locate commands;
 - flicker less on :restart command;
 - don't show Ctrl-C part in information message boxes where it doesn't make
   sense;
 - reduce delay between terminal resize and TUI redrawing;
 - fixed background bold (light) colors in linux native console.

Color scheme related changes:
 - added light versions of color names.

Key bindings:
 - don't pause on '0' after Ctrl-W (count cannot start with zero);
 - multiply counts in front and in the middle of commands with Ctrl-W (as Vim
   does);
 - multiply counts in front of command and its selector (as Vim does).

Other changes:
 - added support for builtin functions and filetype() as the first one;
 - check current view of other pane on leaving FUSE mount directory an don't
   unmount if that file system is still in use;
 - try the rest of the programs for an association when the default one isn't
   found;
 - reduced memory consumption of view histories.

And fixes of bugs and memory leaks.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

June 23, 2012
=============

vifm v0.7.3a
------------

It happens some bugs are discovered just after making a new release.  And it
happened with vifm 0.7.3, which was tested, but apparently not enough.  So
0.7.3a is a bugfix release, which contains fixes for one serious bug and
several small ones as well as adds some more information to the documentation
and very small enhancements.

If you would like to be notified about future releases of vifm or some
important news related to vifm by email, consider subscribing to recently
created vifm-announce@lists.sourceforge.net read-only mailing list.  You can
do this by following this link.

Though this is a bugfix release it has some changes since v0.7.3 that should
be mentioned:

Completion:
 - better completion for :colorscheme command.

Documentation:
 - added a section about color schemes to the documentation;
 - documented that %m, %M, %s, %S and %i have bigger priority than &;
 - documented that %m, %M, %s, %S and %i are mutually exclusive;
 - documented treating of whitespace around option names in :set command.

:set command and options:
 - allowed whitespace after option name in :set command;
 - added checks for correct value of 'tabstop' and 'timeoutlen' options;
 - reset 'columns' and 'lines' options to real number of columns;
 - reset value of 'scrolloff' option to zero on attempt to assign a negative
   value to it;
 - faster execution of `:set sort=foo sortorder sortnumbers` in vifmrc.

TUI (Terminal User Interface):
 - faster redrawing of statusbar with "-- VISUAL --" message after "Press
   Enter" message.

Command-line mode related changes:
 - expand tilde in the second argument of :colorscheme command;
 - forbid relative paths in :colorscheme command until vifm is completely
   loaded;
 - pass range given to alias to an aliased command.

Performance:
 - faster Ctrl-W x, Ctrl-W o, Ctrl-W s, Ctrl-W v, Ctrl-W =, Ctrl-W <,
   Ctrl-W >, Ctrl-W -, Ctrl-W +, Ctrl-W |, Ctrl-W _;
 - faster redraw on terminal resizing;
 - made file filtering using regular expressions work faster (matters when
   directory contains several thousands files);
 - draw quickview on startup only once.

Normal and visual modes related changes:
 - show correct number of selected files in visual mode after n and N keys.

And bug fixes.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

June 3, 2012
============

vifm v0.7.3 release
-------------------

If you would like to be notified about future releases of vifm or some
important news related to vifm by email, consider subscribing to recently
created vifm-announce@lists.sourceforge.net read-only mailing list.  You can
do this by following this link.

Changes since v0.7.2 in general:
 - removed support of moving items in the :file menu;
 - added description of :file programs;
 - improved messages in the TUI as well as it's redrawing in various
   scenarios;
 - changed behaviour of Enter key on a selected directories;
 - better work with PATH environment variable.

Changes since v0.7.2 in details:

Completion:
 - added completion for :copy, :clone, :move, :alink, :rlink and :rename
   commands;
 - added completion for :touch and :mkdir commands;
 - added completion for :split and :vsplit commands.

TUI (Terminal User Interface):
 - added Ctrl-L handling in file info (Ctrl-G) mode;
 - less blinking of the screen in various scenarios;
 - replace home directory with the tilde in terminal title;
 - corrected status bar messages about failed search;
 - better handling of multiline messages in status bar.

Normal and visual modes related changes:
 - leave leading zeros on Ctrl-A/X commands;
 - added "Y" key to visual mode as an alias for "yy";
 - open selected directories with l or Enter keys.

Configuration:
 - added --enable-desktop-files (enabled by default) configure option.

Only on Windows:
 - allow bookmarking of host names on Windows (e.g. //ZX-SPECTRUM);
 - show host's root in history menu (e.g. //ZX_SPECTRUM);
 - made :fileviewer command work.

Macros:
 - added macros expansion for :touch and :mkdir commands;
 - added %i macro to completely ignore output of external commands.

Command-line mode related changes:
 - added :finish command to use in sourced scripts;
 - improved :let command (allowed using of expressions at the right side of
   the statement);
 - properly handle when user alters PATH environment variable using :let
   command;
 - added description for :filetype, :filextype and :fileviewer commands;
 - save last typed but not executed command in command-line mode (this also
   includes searches).

Menus and dialogs:
 - removed possibility of moving items in :file menu;
 - added size of file in bytes in file info mode (Ctrl-G);
 - added q key to close menus.

Other changes:
 - added notes about automatic FUSE mounts to the documentation;
 - now vifm removes scripts ($VIFM/scripts/**) from PATH for :shell command;
 - use common search history for normal, visual and menu modes;
 - increased directory modification stamp precision on *nix.

Plus bug fixes of course.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

February 19, 2012
=================

vifm v0.7.2
-----------

Changes since v0.7.1 :set command and options:
 - added 'rulerformat' option;
 - added 'statusline' option;
 - added 'columns' and 'lines' options;
 - added 'trashdir' option (by Chris Skalenda).

Command-line mode related changes:
 - added optional argument for the :sync command;
 - added support for running :cmap, :nmap and :vmap with one argument;
 - added recursive mode for :rename command;
 - added :let and :unlet commands to work with environment variables;
 - added :windo and :winrun commands;
 - never change active view on :restart command;
 - allowed using of macros with :clone command.

Angle bracket notation:
 - added <esc>.

Only on Windows:
 - added embedded icon;
 - added file properties dialog;
 - show "Sorting directory..." message only for big directories;
 - change console title;
 - made determining of home directory more intelligent;
 - made 'sortnumbers' work;
 - avoid unnecessary directory view updates (like after C key);
 - allow using of backward slashes in :rename command;
 - let :s and :gs filename modifiers change slash type;
 - properly quit vifm on console closing;
 - added :u filename modifier for UNC computer name;
 - added file attributes in status bar and file info view.

Normal and visual modes related changes:
 - added ctrl-w p, ctrl-w b and ctrl-w t normal mode keys.

Configuration:
 - added $VIFM and $MYVIFMRC environment variables;
 - now vifm will add all subdirectories of ~/.vifm/scripts to PATH;
 - better check for old-style color schemes file.

For Vim:
 - added g:vifm_exec_args variable for the plugin.

Other changes:
 - added --select command line argument;
 - added --remote command line argument;
 - added support for character classes in globals;
 - restore terminal title on exit;
 - reset dot and filename filters if they hide bookmarked file;
 - made vifm react faster on external changes.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

November 15, 2011
=================

vifm v0.7.1
-----------

Major changes since v0.7.0:
 - changed meaning of :split command (so replace it with :vsplit in your
   vifmrc);
 - added backgrounding of :copy, :move, :delete, ga and gA commands;
 - added horizontal splitting and keys to control size of the panes;
 - added less-like view mode;
 - made some changes to the Vim plugin;
 - windows version was made much more usable.

Changes in details

:set command and options:
 - added 'scrollbind', 'wrapscan', 'incsearch', 'cpoptions', 'laststatus' and
   'tabstop' options;
 - make 'ignorecase' and 'smartcase' affect f and F;
 - don't use position in the view on ' key, when 'autochpos' is off.

Angle bracket notation:
 - added support for more angle bracket notations in mappings (<bs>, <tab>,
   <s-tab>, <home>, <end>, <left>, <right>, <up>, <down>, <pageup>,
   <pagedown>, <del>, <delete>, <m-a>, <m-b>, ..., <m-z>);
 - added <s-f1>, ..., <s-f12>, <a-f1>, ..., <a-f12>, <c-f1>, ..., <c-f12>,
   only for Windows;
 - added <a-X> as synonyms for <m-X> (where X is a key);
 - added angle bracket notation <c-s-X> and <s-c-X> as synonyms for <c-X>;
 - added Ctrl + Alt + letter combinations, only for *nix.

Command-line mode related changes:
 - added :split! to toggle between only and split view;
 - added :file to quick run one of associated commands;
 - added backgrounding of :copy, :move and :delete commands;
 - added :delete!;
 - added :execute, :source commands;
 - added support for using environment variables as :cd or :pushd arguments;
 - added support for :substitute command without arguments;
 - added notation to run internal vifm commands from user defined commands;
 - allowed exclamation mark for :view command (to prevent view closing);
 - allowed question mark for :mark command (to prevent bookmark overwriting).

Completion:
 - added completion of environment variables (:cd, :pushd, :! and :!!).

Normal and visual modes related changes:
 - added '(' and ')' keys for normal and visual modes;
 - added Ctrl-A and Ctrl-X keys (normal and visual modes);
 - added e key for normal mode;
 - made i key work in visual mode;
 - made ga and gA work in background;
 - better cW command;
 - clean selection after i key in normal mode.

Menus and dialogs:
 - added year in the file info dialog (on Ctrl-G);
 - added zh, zl, zH and zL keys for the menus (horizontal scrolling);
 - added ZQ and ZZ keys to close menus and dialogs.

TUI (Terminal User Interface):
 - added horizontal splitting of views (changed :split command, added :vsplit
   command, changed Ctrl-w s mapping);
 - added Ctrl-w j and Ctrl-w k keys;
 - added Ctrl-w <, Ctrl-w >, Ctrl-w + and Ctrl-w - keys;
 - added Ctrl-w | and Ctrl-w _ keys.

File cloning:
 - don't change file extension on cloning;
 - move cursor to clone of current file after file cloning;
 - smarter file name generation on cloning;
 - made C command accept count.

Only on Windows:
 - added kind of portable mode on Windows;
 - make macros expand to paths with forward slashes on Windows;
 - better check if directory was changed on Windows;
 - show all shares on Windows (including private ones);
 - fixed a lot of bugs on Windows.

For Vim:
 - added g:vifm_exec variable for the plugin;
 - added ftdetect plugin for vim (now there is no need for modelines or
   changing .vimrc);
 - allowed arguments for plugin's commands;
 - added more tags to the documentation in vim-help format.

Other changes:
 - added Ctrl-n (j) and Ctrl-p (k) keys;
 - added view mode (see documentation);
 - added -c and + command line arguments;
 - added support of [count] for / and ?;
 - don't clear terminal title on exit;
 - warn about symbolic links are not available;
 - don't show current file as selected after executing a :command and resizing
   terminal while it works;
 - show progress message (e.g. on :copy) after terminal is resized;
 - made some messages about operations more correct.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

September 29, 2011
==================

vifm v0.7.0 is out!
-------------------

And as it was promised vifm is back on Windows!

This release breaks compatibility a little, which was done intensionally to
make vifm more vi-like.  I hope that wont make too much discomfort for users,
at least I tried to reduce discomfort as much as I can.  In particular, an
utility program named vifmrc-converter is shipped with vifm now.  It's main
purpose is to automatically convert configuration files (vifmrc, vifminfo,
startup and colorschemes files) to new format.  You don't have to run it by
yourself, vifm will do this for you after asking some questions at first
startup.

Here are the main changes by categories.

Configuration:
 - changed format of ~/.vifm/vifmrc and ~/.vifm/vifminfo files;
 - removed support of startup file, all commands will be automatically moved
   to the vifmrc file;
 - added support for multi line commands in the vifmrc (ex-startup) file;
 - now users can place scripts for vifm to ~/.vifm/scripts, vifm modifies its
   PATH environment variable to let user run scripts without specifying full
   path;
 - now vifm also accepts paths to files as the startup arguments and
   --no-configs option.

Normal and visual modes related changes:
 - added gf, al, rl and cl commands for dealing with symbolic links;
 - added gu and gU commands (and their variations);
 - added gs command to work with t selection like gv with visual mode
   selection;
 - made C handle selection, check read permission and work in visual mode;
 - changed the way l key handles selection and made it work in visual mode.

Command-line mode related changes:
 - removed :cmdhistory command, use :history cmd or ":history :" instead;
 - added :noremap, :cnoremap, :nnoremap, :vnoremap, :unmap, :cunmap, :nunmap
   and :vunmap commands;
 - added :filetype, :filextype and :fileviewer commands;
 - added :find and :grep commands;
 - added :substitute and :tr commands;
 - added :clone, :copy, :move, :alink and :rlink commands;
 - added :chmod, :chown, :mkdir and :touch commands;
 - added :mark, :delmarks, :comclear, :highlight, :restart and :messages
   command;
 - documented command line keys and marked which :commands accept ranges;
 - now vifm understands user name after tilde in paths;
 - let user use short forms of user-defined commands with "!".

Completion:
 - added completion for co, cg, cw and cW commands;
 - sort completion items;
 - shift-Tab command line key to perform completion in reversed order;
 - added Ctrl-_ command-line key to reject completion.

Macros:
 - added filename modifiers (:p, :~, :., :h, :t, :r, :e, :s and :gs);
 - added %S and %M macros;
 - added macros that are expanded to paths enclosed in double quotes (%"c,
   %"C, %"f, %"F, %"b, %"d and %"D);
 - handle %m, %M, %s and %S in the :! command.

:set command and options:
 - removed 'savelocation' option. Use :set vifminfo+=dhistory;
 - added 'wildmenu', 'ignorecase', 'smartcase', 'hlsearch', 'vifminfo',
   'shell', 'vixcmd', 'scrolloff', 'timeoutlen', 'autochpos','gdefault',
   'slowfs' options;
 - added abbreviations for options;
 - added support for using ':' instead of '=';
 - support for ':set' and ':set all' commands;
 - made ':set option' equivalent to ':set option?' for all types of options
   except boolean;
 - made 'history' option control search, command line and prompt histories;
 - better 'sort' option (support by multiple sort keys, added iname key);
 - made 'vicmd' and 'vixcmd' understand & at the end;
 - :set command now understands & (reset option to its default value).

Color scheme related changes:
 - all color schemes are stored under the ~/.vifm/colors/ directory, each
   color scheme in its own file;
 - color scheme file is a list of commands. All command-line commands are
   handled, but only :highlight commands are really useful here;
 - added colors for current top line, other top line, status line, error
   messages in the status bar, broken links and FIFO files;
 - now maximum number of color schemes is unlimited even on 8-color terminals
   (there was a limit of 5 color schemes for such terminals before).

Only on Windows:
 - gl normal mode key;
 - UNC names support;
 - :volumes command.

For Vim:
 - added g:vifm_term variable for the plugin;
 - added vifmrc syntax and filetype files for Vim;
 - tags for some items in the help file for Vim.

Other changes:
 - let user go through directories with execute access, but no read access;
 - made filetype understand star as in globals;
 - removed duplicates from command and directory history;
 - made directory, command line and search histories as well as dirstack and
   registers persistent (when 'vifminfo' option contains appropriate value);
 - show search matches in the menus;
 - now keys can be used in mappings and mapping of keys like y, d or m works
   right;
 - modify terminal emulator title;
 - don't quit when terminal is too small (print message and ignore input);
 - fixed bugs.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

July 20, 2011
=============

vifm-0.6.3
----------

Main changes in vifm-0.6.3:
 - added another format for filetype (FUSE_MOUNT2);
 - added %CLEAR FUSE mount parameter.  See vifmrc for details;
 - added %c and %C macros (current file of current and other directories, not
   selected file or files);
 - added :rename command (opens vi to let you edit names for selected file or
   files);
 - added undo list (u, Ctrl-R and :undolist commands; 'undolevels' option);
 - added small FAQ;
 - added gA command (like ga, but forces update);
 - added whole line comments (can be useful in startup file);
 - added :dirs command (shows directory stack);
 - added 'sortnumbers', 'followlinks', 'fusehome', 'confirm' and 'history'
   options;
 - added dialog to ask user about backwards range in command;
 - added some vi like keys for menus, dialogs and visual mode;
 - added 'savelocation' option (start vifm in the last visited directory)
   which is off be default thus returning old behaviour when vifm is started
   with no argument;
 - added gv command for visual mode;
 - enter key in visual mode will leave it saving selection;
 - now location of panes is saved in ~/.vifm/vifminfo instead of
   ~/.vifm/vifmr;
 - now builtin keys can be remapped;
 - don't replace escape sequences for :! and :!! commands;
 - more vi like completion and history in command line and search;
 - some improvements for :filter command;
 - some improvements for command ranges;
 - now ranges modify %f macro for user defined commands;
 - made f and F work with wide characters;
 - made option parser handle quotes;
 - rename files in Trash (to avoid name conflicts);
 - don't terminate background processes on vifm exit;
 - remove files that are in the Trash on :empty command from all registers;
 - don't ignore Ctrl-Z;
 - don't clear screen on shellout;
 - updated Vim plugin;
 - fixed a lot of bugs;

See ChangeLog for details.  Also see THANKS file that was added in this
release.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

June 19, 2011
=============

vifm-0.6.2
-----------

This release fixes some bugs and adds several commands for different modes.

Main changes:
 - added map menus (run :cmap, :vmap, :nmap commands without arguments);
 - added :cmdhistory command;
 - added 'fastrun' option;
 - added o and O keys for Visual mode (go to other end of selection);
 - added gv Normal mode command;
 - added support for spaces and functional keys in mappings (<space> and
   <f0> - <f63>);
 - added mimetype to fileinfo dialog;
 - added %b command macro;
 - implemented :yank and :colorscheme commands;
 - made filetype menu editable;
 - restore SIGINT (Ctrl+C) default behaviour on shellout;
 - replace escape sequences in quick view output with ^foo;
 - give options if a file already exists in destination directory;
 - unmount all FUSE mounts on exit;
 - more verbose version information;
 - added Ctrl-C key handling to error message dialog;
 - use file command when GTK+ and libmagic are disabled;
 - better error messages;
 - use ga command results to sort by size;
 - fixed paths in config.c to work with non standard install prefix;
 - fixed several bugs with command completion and terminal resizing.

See ChangeLog for details and AUTHORS for information about authors.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

June 11, 2011
=============

Vifm-0.6.1 is available.
------------------------

Windows version remains unchanged for now.  I'm planning to use one code base
for both *nix and Windows platforms and it would take some time to do that.

Major changes since 0.5:
 - added support for user mappings;
 - added file selectors (like motions and text-objects);
 - improved sort dialog;
 - added filetype detection using GTK+ or libmagic (:file);
 - added directory stack (:pushd, :popd);
 - added completion for :! and :!! commands;
 - added custom file viewers (:view);
 - added startup file;
 - better utf8 support;
 - added :set command and options.

See ChangeLog for details.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

August 7, 2009
==============

Vifm-0.5 is available.
----------------------

This release is mainly user contributed patches and a new port for Windows.
A filetype setting was added to allow the mounting of files with fuse-zip and
other filesystems based on fuse.  The :com input was changed to accept wide
characters.  The Windows port is missing some of the features of the Unix
version but it is useful and stable enough for an initial release.  The
following commands were added in the Windows port:
 - :copy;
 - :move;
 - :volume - list mounted volumes.
